you turn around and spy a reddish pink
creature
with three hearts nine brains and eight
powerful long arms
each of these arms is decorated with two
rows of scary-looking suction cups
the blood running inside its body is
blue the creature lurking deep in the
water
seems to embody everything mysterious
and creepy about the ocean
nah it's not a new horror movie it's not
even your gym teacher
i'm talking about the giant pacific
octopus the critter's huge
an adult octopus is often 16 feet from
tip of one arm to the tip of another
it's almost like three adult people
standing one on top of another
why i have no idea the largest specimens
can also weigh more than 100 pounds
but the size record is held by a giant
that grew to be
30 feet across and had the weight of a
whopping 600 pounds
hey just imagine all the sushi you can
make with that
but then what would happen if you got
caught by this creature which is several
times your size
would you manage to escape or survive
such an encounter at all
it's not that easy to come across the
underwater giant
octopuses are well-known introverts not
only do they prefer to live on their own
but they also try to avoid humans at all
costs
you don't look like their everyday meal
shrimp lobster
clams or fish i'll have what she's
having
you don't even resemble their largest
prey sharks
yeah i'll skip that admittedly there
have been cases where giant octopuses
tried to snack on divers
but they usually got discouraged very
fast and hid
under the rocks to meet a giant octopus
you would need to travel to the north
pacific coast
it can be japan alaska british columbia
choose a place to your liking these
creatures like cold waters
rich in oxygen if you're lucky or should
it be
unlucky you'll see one of them close to
the shore
giant octopuses can live in the area
that is relatively dry at low tide
and underwater at high tide or you might
need to dive to a depth of more than 6
600 feet octopuses can go that far down
but then the world's deepest scuba dive
happened when an egyptian man plunged
1090 feet in the red sea in egypt that
deep under the surface
the pressure is 30 times greater than at
sea level
oh and the diver's new nickname is
squish no not really
what if you were wearing an atmospheric
diving suit
that's a hard shell protecting you from
the tremendous deep sea pressure
it looks like a spacesuit and no water
or gas can get inside
but even dressed in this armor you
wouldn't be able to get deeper than two
thousand feet below the surface
well the octopus's body has no air
cavities and thus
doesn't contain air its blood is liquid
its flesh
solid there is no difference between the
pressure inside its body and
outside which makes it possible for the
animal to dwell
at such immense depths you with your
body filled with air
don't have such an ability that's why
you're wearing a simple diving suit and
looking for a giant octopus in shallow
waters
you aren't likely to notice the creature
at first just below the surface of its
skin
there are special camouflage cells each
of them contains something like a tiny
balloon filled with pigment
orange yellow red brown black you name
it
when the animal's muscles and nerves
make the balloon expand
the color it contains becomes more
visible this mechanism
allows the octopus to change its color
and texture
and blend in with corals rocks and
plants
in case of danger the animal can alter
its appearance
in the blink of an eye no wonder you are
unaware of the danger lurking several
feet below you
oh you're shell shocked when a giant
shadow lurches toward you from the
darkness
the octopus launches itself onto you and
wraps its massive
arms around your body the octopus's arms
have their own mind
because two-thirds of the animal's
neurons are there
not in its head that's why an arm can be
solving one problem
for example how to open a shellfish well
its owner is busy with something else
like looking for something else to munch
on each of these powerful arms also has
100 to 280 suction cups which can attach
individually octopuses often use their
arms as legs
while slowly crawling along the bottom
you feel these limbs securely swaddle
your body
you can't move a muscle okay time out
octopuses do not have tentacles they
only have arms
it's true just saying anyway the octopus
must have decided you're a menace
that's why it releases a cloud of black
ink
now you're extremely lucky to be wearing
a mask this
ink not only hides the animal but it can
also physically harm its enemy
if this stuff got into your eyes it
would cause terrible irritation
your senses of taste and smell would
also get confused
the ink is actually so potent that
victims which don't have enough time to
escape
it may not survive you keep struggling
the giant monster doesn't like it it's
trying to drag you down to the bottom
you're desperately moving your flippers
but it doesn't seem to work
you grab onto the octopus but it feels
as if it's slipping through your arms
these creatures are some of the most
notorious escape artists among all
sea inhabitants they can squeeze their
compressible body through literally
any small hole or tiny opening having no
bones air bladders or gas pockets inside
their bodies
makes it possible you however turn out
to be a fidgety prey
that's why the animal decides to use its
main weapon
a mighty beak this sharp beak helps the
octopus to drill into shelled prey
you can imagine how tough it is it's the
creature's hardest part
and it can be as big as an adult's hand
once the beak fits into some hole
the animal is bound to get through as
well such a bee can easily tear through
my diving suit
and crack my face mask this thought
makes you panic
you start to flail trying to get as far
away from the terrifying beak as
possible
despite all your attempts the thing's
getting closer what makes the situation
even worse is that all octopuses are
venomous
it helps them paralyze clams in opening
their shells
good thing you're not a clam more good
news
this venom can't harm you but you should
be really grateful the octopus that's
latching onto you
isn't the blue ringed octopus this golf
ball-sized critter has venom
1000 times stronger than cyanide that's
one of the reasons the animal is
considered one of the most treacherous
in the ocean
anyway by struggling non-stop you must
have caused too much discomfort to the
octopus
at some point it loosens its grip and
you break free
now keep in mind the giant pacific
octopus is an eerily
intelligent creature it has learned to
mimic other species
open jars solve problems and remember
the solutions
take things apart just for fun and
navigate through mazes can it be
because the octopus has not one but nine
brains
the central brain controls the nervous
system but there's an additional brain
in
each of the creature's eight arms it's a
cluster of nerve cells that control
movement
that's how the arms can work
independently of each other but still
together
towards the same goal experts are also
sure octopuses have distinct
personalities
and who knows what tricks your octopus
is up its sleeve
or sleeves hey imagine trying to buy a
tuxedo for an
octopus hold on i'm getting off track
again
and you don't linger around after
getting out of its grasp
get back to the surface as fast as you
can and if you think an octopus won't
get you on dry land
well i have some bad news for you there
are
octopus species that ambush hunt in tide
pools
they leave water for short periods of
time to catch their prey
moving on their arms lightning fast
these critters are smaller than the
giant pacific octopus
but it still looks creepy hey if a group
of octopuses had a demonstration
would they be up in arms